---
title: Assets
tags: ['sectionHead']
---

Each community’s library is different, with diverse assets that can be used to support civic engagement. Some of these may include:
* Programs and services that could be expanded or tailored to civic engagement
* Knowledge of the community 
* Relationships with community organizations (public, private, and nonprofit)
* Staff or volunteers with an interest in civic engagement
* Motivated group of patrons who want to improve the community
* Physical space
* Compassionate and inclusive space
* Digital assets (public access computers, digital services, etc.)

With these assets, libraries are uniquely positioned to combine them in ways that bridge…

* **The local and the global**: Most issues (environment, homelessness, social justice, nutrition, etc.) have both a local and global dimension. 
Take the environment for example, initiatives like [ThisIsZeroHour](https://www.thisiszerohour.org/){:target="_blank"} 
connect local sister chapters to a larger cause, and offer resources for organizing in your community). 
Here’s an example of the Brooklyn Library, which acted as a facilitator and a support of the [Community Action Against the North Brooklyn Pipeline](https://borrowed-time.org/2021/07/02/the-people-vs-the-pipeline-community-action-against-the-north-brooklyn-pipeline/){:target="_blank"}.

* **The physical and the digital**: Libraries play a unique role in our communities and can connect and engage people outside and inside their physical location. 
For example, the [ItGetsBetter project](https://itgetsbetter.org/){:target="_blank"} mission is to “uplift, empower, and connect lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) 
youth around the globe.” The library’s compassionate and inclusive space can be used to bring together members of the LGBTQ+ community, access relevant resources, connect to a larger community online, 
and spark ideas for local activities. 

* **One shot and sustained activities**: Community service activities like park clean-ups are often one-shot events. 
The library can build on these by developing programs that have other components that last over several weeks or longer. 
Examples include: researching sources and reasons for trash buildup, designing a garden, envisioning other ways to discourage littering (perhaps a beautiful mural?), and so on.

<div class="activity callout" markdown="1">

## [Activity 3: Library Assets for Civic Engagement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uPmhiT61et6bkAChEcgjCZPWVTGtgmdrK6o7MoNqlvU/edit#bookmark=id.rs5fd3529uaq){:target="_blank"}

Every library has assets, many of which can be applied to civic engagement services. These assets differ from library to library. 
In this activity we want you to consider your library’s assets as they relate to civic engagement. These assets include:

* Programs and services that could be expanded or tailored to civic engagement
* Knowledge of the community 
* Relationships with community organizations (public, private, and nonprofit)
* Staff or volunteers with an interest in civic engagement
* Motivated group of patrons who want to improve the community
* Physical space
* Compassionate and inclusive space
* Digital assets (physical/online presence)

On a scale of 1-5, rate your library for each of the assets. After rating, discuss:

* What assets do you believe are particularly strong? 
* What assets would you want to further develop? 
* Are there other assets not listed above that can be leveraged for civic engagement?

The module also describes three ways that libraries are uniquely positioned to make a difference in civic engagement. We call these bridging assets. 
They are:

* The local and the global
* The physical and the digital
* One shot and sustained activities

Which bridging assets can your library bring to civic engagement? 
</div>
