---
title: The Connected Learning Mindset
tags: ['sectionHead']
---

The effective use of the connected learning framework for youth services requires a mindset shift away from the traditional view of libraries as quiet places to read, and librarians as experts who know all the answers. The connected learning library worker will embrace iteration, mistakes, and co-learning. 

## Iteration

When working on connected learning-based programs and services, library staff have to be ready to consider their programs and services as works in progress. That means entering into this work with a mindset of trying things out, not expecting perfection, analyzing progress, and making changes along the way.  It’s important to focus not on something as a success or failure but to look at all connected learning based teen services as opportunities to learn with teens and community members, make changes and iterate as that learning happens. It’s through this iterative process that programs and services are more and more able to support teen and community needs.

## Mistakes

When library staff are ready to iterate and give up a need for perfection, risk-taking and mistakes are bound to happen. Being willing to take risks means that staff are open to making mistakes and learning from those mistakes.  When something doesn’t work the response should not be “we will never do that again.”  Instead, library staff should look at what didn’t work, analyze the reasons why, and consider how to re-envision the program or service with that new understanding in mind. Through risk-taking and mistakes library staff are able to better understand teen and community needs and assets and through that understanding hone in on the programs and services that will leverage those assets and support those needs.  


## Co-learning


When library staff give up the "expert" role, they open up opportunities to learn with others and through that learning understand the experiences, assets, and needs of teens and those who live and work with them.  Co-learning requires asking questions of teens and community members, seeking feedback on ideas, and building programs and services together with teens and community members.  Co-learning also requires being able to step back from a role of leader to a role of learner and participant.



<table class="updatedcolor">
	<tr><th bgcolor="#85c0fe">Iteration</th><td>When working on connected learning based programs and services library staff have to be ready to consider their programs and services as works in progress. That means entering into this work with a mindset of trying things out, not expecting perfection, analyzing progress, and making changes along the way.  It’s important to focus not on something as a success or failure but to look at all connected learning based teen services as opportunities to learn with teens and community members, make changes and iterate as that learning happens. It’s through this iterative process that programs and services are more and more able to support teen and community needs.</td></tr>
	<tr><th bgcolor="lightpink">Mistakes</th><td>When library staff are ready to iterate and give up a need for perfection, risk-taking and mistakes are bound to happen. Being willing to take risks means that staff are open to making mistakes and learning from those mistakes.  When something doesn’t work the response should not be “we will never do that again.”  Instead, library staff should look at what didn’t work, analyze the reasons why, and consider how to re-envision the program or service with that nee understanding in mind. Through risk-taking and mistakes library staff are able to better understand teen and community needs and assets and through that understanding hone in on the programs and services that will leverage those assets and support those needs.  </td></tr>
	<tr><th bgcolor="#fffd86">Colearning</th><td>When library staff give up the role as expert they open up opportunities to learn with others and through that learning understand the lived experiences, assets, and needs of teens and those that live and work with them.  Colearning requires asking questions of teens and community members, seeking feedback on ideas, and building programs and services together with teens and community members.  Colearning also requires being able to step back from a role of leader to a role of learner and participant.</td></tr>
</table>



<table class="updatedcolor">
	<tr><td bgcolor="#85c0fe" width="10%">&nbsp;</td><td><h3>Iteration</h3>When working on connected learning based programs and services library staff have to be ready to consider their programs and services as works in progress. That means entering into this work with a mindset of trying things out, not expecting perfection, analyzing progress, and making changes along the way.  It’s important to focus not on something as a success or failure but to look at all connected learning based teen services as opportunities to learn with teens and community members, make changes and iterate as that learning happens. It’s through this iterative process that programs and services are more and more able to support teen and community needs.</td></tr>
	<tr><th bgcolor="lightpink"> width="10%">&nbsp;</td><td><h3>Mistakes</h3>When library staff are ready to iterate and give up a need for perfection, risk-taking and mistakes are bound to happen. Being willing to take risks means that staff are open to making mistakes and learning from those mistakes.  When something doesn’t work the response should not be “we will never do that again.”  Instead, library staff should look at what didn’t work, analyze the reasons why, and consider how to re-envision the program or service with that nee understanding in mind. Through risk-taking and mistakes library staff are able to better understand teen and community needs and assets and through that understanding hone in on the programs and services that will leverage those assets and support those needs.  </td></tr>
	<tr><th bgcolor="#fffd86" width="10%">&nbsp;</td><td><h3>Colearning</H3>When library staff give up the role as expert they open up opportunities to learn with others and through that learning understand the lived experiences, assets, and needs of teens and those that live and work with them.  Colearning requires asking questions of teens and community members, seeking feedback on ideas, and building programs and services together with teens and community members.  Colearning also requires being able to step back from a role of leader to a role of learner and participant.</td></tr>
</table>

<div style="border:0px 0px 0px 10px solid #85c0fe" markdown="1">

### Iteration

When working on connected learning based programs and services library staff have to be ready to consider their programs and services as works in progress. That means entering into this work with a mindset of trying things out, not expecting perfection, analyzing progress, and making changes along the way.  It’s important to focus not on something as a success or failure but to look at all connected learning based teen services as opportunities to learn with teens and community members, make changes and iterate as that learning happens. It’s through this iterative process that programs and services are more and more able to support teen and community needs.

</div>
