---
title: Mentoring
tags: ['sectionHead']
permalink: /modules/mentoring/
---

Libraries around the country provide a range of mentoring opportunities to support young people. Research evidence finds that quality mentoring experiences can make a powerful impact on the personal, professional, and academic lives of young people. In this module, we offer guidance and best practices for encouraging mentoring relationships within a youth services context.

<div class="callout objectives" markdown="1">
## After completing this module, you will be able to…

* Explain how mentoring incorporates the principles of connected learning
* Describe how library staff, community members, and peers can support youth through mentoring
* Create a roadmap for mentoring at your library 
* Address common mentoring challenges

</div>

## Acknowledgements
The ConnectedLib team would like to thank _ConnectedLib_ partners Sara Evans (Trails Regional Library, MO) and Sonya Harsha (Algona (IA) Public Library) for their help in developing this module. 
    
<div class="callout activity" markdown="1">
	
## [Worksheet #1: Mentoring K-W-L](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MN0NPnxHub2tFqB4HR8EkBLgRkUU6Y-pYUmuyCF6fe0/edit#heading=h.5pf3n53wqrjk){:target="_blank"}

Before moving forward in the module, spend some time thinking about what you already know about mentoring, and what you hope to learn from this module. The [first worksheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MN0NPnxHub2tFqB4HR8EkBLgRkUU6Y-pYUmuyCF6fe0/edit#heading=h.5pf3n53wqrjk){:target="_blank"} in your [_Mentoring Workbook_](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MN0NPnxHub2tFqB4HR8EkBLgRkUU6Y-pYUmuyCF6fe0/edit#){:target="_blank"} is a "KWL" — that stands for Know, Want to learn, and Learned. 

First describe your experience (if any) with mentoring. Then make a list of things you already **know** about mentoring. Then write down what you **want to learn** in this module. You’ll fill out the last column, what you learned (L), when you have completed this module.
</div>

