---
title: Step 3 - Guide mentors and mentees
---

## Setting goals and expectations
> Goal setting creates a sense of purpose.  This is even more important when we are establishing longer term relationships.  – Sonya Harsha

Plan to support the mentors and mentee relationships regularly over time. Some ideas include:
* Regular checkins
* Orientation sessions
* Facilitation of mentor led programming (helping and working with youth while the mentor shares their expertise)
* Training mentors

You can also provide support materials for mentors such as guides or handbooks. These materials may include:
* Expectations and boundaries: What the mentor’s role is and isn’t
* Best practices for communicating with youth
* Suggestions for building rapport
* Factors affecting teen development (covered in the Youth Development module)

<div class="callout" markdown="1">

There are many resources available online to help mentors develop their skills, including this series targeting young adults who are peer mentors. 
Young Adult Peer Mentoring series

</div>

## Checking in or evaluating the relationship
How will you evaluate mentoring programs/relationships? Here are a few questions to ask:
* What learning is taking place?
* What were the mentor and mentee’s goals? Are they reaching them?
* If desired or appropriate, how can we sustain the relationship over time?
* Are both parties satisfied with the relationship?

The steps listed in the Outcomes, Assessment, & Evaluation module can be used to evaluate a specific mentoring relationship or an entire program.
