---
title: Space 
---

Even large libraries may find that they often do not have the physical capacity to implement all of the programs and activities that they would like. While space can be a challenge, the capacity of your library can be augmented using community strengths and partnerships. The first step is gaining in-depth knowledge of your library’s space.

There are a variety of ways to assess the space capacity of your library. While the most common is to think of your spaces by their square footage, or by their max occupancy numbers, there are other factors that are often not thought about. Ask yourself the following questions as you evaluate your library's spaces: 

* Can the shelving in that space be moved easily? 
* Are the tables on wheels, or otherwise easily mobile? 
* Can the chairs stack?
* Can you configure the space for an everyday "hang out" area? How about a workshop with groups at different tables, or different computer workstations? What about meeting layout -- a speaker and audience, or a more intimate circle configuration? 
* Is this space equally accessible to everyone?


<div class="colorhighlight color2" markdown="1">

### Sunnydale Public Library

Space
Strengths
Weaknesses
How can it be improved?
Main Floor
Large open spaces
Few long tables for collaboration
Work with volunteers to move large tables from meeting room
Meeting Room
50 person capacity
Large tables take up space, heavy to move
Work with volunteers to move large tables to the main floor
Study Room
Collaborative work space for 2-5 people
Rarely used
Advertise the study space at the front desk

 
</div>
<div class="callout activity" markdown="1">
	
### [Worksheet #4: Your space capacity]( ){:target="_blank"}

Instructions
 
</div>


